# Lab 1.1: 

1. Go to [https://remix.ethereum.org/](https://remix.ethereum.org/)

2. Copy in the following code:

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.18;
contract Employee {
}
```

* NOTE: The very first line defines the version of solidity you're going to use.
* NOTE: You will notice that underneath the Create button it shows a new section with the name of the contract and "at 0x..." (memory):

3. This means that the smart contract lives at an address. The full address along with
other information is shown in the debugger if you click on the Details button.

Note: Notice there's a **contractAddress**; this is where the smart contract is located. In this example it's not live on the Ethereum Blockchain since were working within the JavaScript EVM.

Also notice **gas**. Every time a contract is deployed and modified, nodes on the Ethereum network must verify the contract. It's referred to as being redundantly parallel, as a way to reach consensus.

Gas is the name for the execution fee that senders of transactions (in our case, senders of a smart contract transaction) will pay for verification.

4. Update your smart contract with the following:

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.18;

contract Employee {
  string fName = 'Ernesto';
}
```

5. Update your smart contract with the following 

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.18;

contract Employee {
  string fName = 'Ernesto';
  uint age = 44;
}
```

6. Hit **Create** to create the contract. At this point, if you look under details or
   try to drop down the contract at the right column, you will see nothing.

Where are our variables?

7. Let's add **pubic** visibility to our variables. 

What is public visibility?  It means that the variable is accessible via messages.

** => TODO: Add the public keyword modifier to the contract **

Notice that unlike other languages (Java/C/C++), the public keyword comes after and not before the type of the variable.

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.18;

contract Employee {
  string ??? fName = 'Ernesto';
  uint ??? age = 44;
}
```

8. Click Create and there will be two blue buttons on the right side with the names of our variables and associated values.
 When you define public state variables, the EVM creates better functions for
 them. So, you can click on these buttons and it will return the value, as if it
 were a function.

9. Add a constructor to your contract.

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.18;

contract Employee {
    string public fName = 'Ernesto';
    uint public age = 44;

    constructor() public {
        fName = 'Ernesto';
        age = 34;
    }
}
```

If you hit **Create**, you will see the result is the same.

10. Let's transfomr the fName variable into a constant variable (so it can't change)

** => TODO: replace 'public' with constant for fName **

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.18;

contract Employee {
    string public fName = 'Ernesto';
    uint ??? age = 44;

    constructor() public {
        fName = 'Ernesto';
        age = 34;
    }
}
```

** => Note: In your IDE: you'll notice a red "X" next to line 9.  If you hover over it, you will notice that it says**
"TypeError: Cannot assign to constant variable."

11. Remove line 9 and the error goes awaay.

12. Set some varibles:

Our smart contract at this point is very basic. Let's integrate a potential user
interaction where we can manually define an Employee's name and age.
 
** => TODO: Paste the following: **

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.18;

contract Employee {
    string fName = 'Ernesto';
    uint age = 44;

    function setEmployee(string newfName, uint newage) public {
        fName = newfName;
        age = newage;
    }
    
    function getEmployee() public constant returns (string, uint) {
        return (fName, age);
    }
}
```

As you can see, we deleted the constructor for now.

We now have a getter and setter function forthe contract.

13. Let's add a few things to the contract.

** => Create a getter and setter function for the contract for a new member called "title". **

** => Update the contstructor to reflect this. 

