
[<< back to main index](../README.md)

Lab 4.1: Mappings
========================

## Objectives

In most languages, mappings are the name given to a higher-order function that applies a specific function to each element of a list and returns the list in the same order. You could think of mapping as an apply-to-all if you used in a functional form. But the concept of mappings isn’t just limited to lists.

It also applies to sequential containers, tree-like containers and even abstract containers like promises and futures.

Consider the example below:

Suppose you have a list of integers [10, 20, 30, 40, 50] and would like to compute the square of each list integer. To do this, you must first define a function to help you square a single number such as:

```javascript
function square(n) { return n * n }
```

Then, you can call map on the function

```javascript
[10, 20, 30, 40].map(square)
```

Or, one could just call the function as a lambda (anonymous function).

```javascript
[10, 20, 30, 40].map(n => n * n )
```

Maps are like objects in the sense that both of them let you set keys to values, access those values, delete them, and detect whether something has been stored at a particular key. Because of this, maps have always been used as objects. However, there are significant differences that exist between maps and objects:

 * While the keys of an object will always be strings and symbols, a map can contain any value including the objects, functions and any primitive data types;
 * You must use manual means to get the number of properties of an object. For maps, you can use the size property; and
 * Maps can be iterated while objects require the keys to be obtained in some fashion before iteration.



## Step 1: Create instructors Contract

Go to [https://remix.ethereum.org/](https://remix.ethereum.org/)

Create a new contract.

```solidity
contract Courses_data {
  struct Instructor {
    uint age;
    string firstName;
    string lastName;
  }
  mapping(address => Instructor) instructors;
  address[] public instructorAccounts;
}	

```

We'll deal with exactly the meaning of structs in the next lab.

## Step 2: Add A SetInstructor() function

Add the following function to your new contract

```solidity
  function setInstructor(address _address, uint _age, string _firstName, string _lastName) public {
    var instructor1 = instructors [_address];
    instructor1.age = _age;
    instructor1.firstName = _firstName;
    instructor1.lastName = _lastName;
    instructor1.age = _age;
    instructorAccounts.push(_address)-1;
  }
```


In the first line of the above code, we are just passing arguments as an address, age, first name and last name. Next, we create a variable instructor1 and bind it to the instructors mapping and pass it in the _address as the key. We then specify the age, first and last names. Finally, we push the new instructor address to the array of addresses instructorAccounts.

You can now add new instructors to the mapping.


## Step 3: Add a getInstructors() function to get all instructors

However, if you want to retrieve them, you must first create a function which returns a list of addresses from the instructorAccounts as follows:


```solidity
  function getInstructors() view public returns(address[]) {
    return instructorAccounts;
  }
```

Now you have access to the accounts.

## Step 4: Add a getInstructor() function to get a given instructor

We can now write a function that will retrieve a specific instructor based on the given address.

```solidity
  function  getInstructors(address insts) view public returns(uint, string, string) {
    return (instructors[insts].age, instructors[insts].firstName, instructors[insts].lastName);.
  }
```


## Step 5: Test your new contract

Try testing your new contract and verify it.


