
[<< back to main index](../README.md)

Lab 4.2: Modifiers
========================

## Objectives

In this chapter, we will learn how to use another important function, which are work modifiers.

A modifier enables you to control the conduct of your smart contract capacities. It incorporates an assortment of utilization cases, for example, confining who can run a given capacity, opening capacities at a specific time allotment, and so forth.  

For our situation, we will make a modifier that permits only the contract proprietor to run a given capacity. With regards to our task, this will mean only enabling the contract proprietor to get the setEmployee() work.

This simple instructional exercise is simply one more piece of the creation of a smart contract.

It's very straightforward; it enables you to set an employee's name and age. We can likewise interface with this smart contract through a web3 UI.

To further illustrate Mappings and Structs, we will restructure our smart contract to take into consideration including numerous employees, including recovering the information related with them considering their record as a key.


## Step 1: Create Employees Contract

Open up your employees.sol contract in Remix IDE:

Here is what it should look like:

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.18;

contract Employee {
    string fName;
    uint age;

    event Employee(
        string name,
        uint age,
    );

    function setEmployee(string _fName, uint _age) public {
        fName = _fName;
        age = _age;
        Employee(_fName, _age)
    }

    function getEmployee() view public returns (string, uint) {
        return (fName, age);
    }
}
```

Function modifiers in smart contracts can be utilized for an assortment of purposes. For this example, we will make a modifier that will enable the proprietor of the contract to set the employee name and age through the setEmployee () function.


## Step 2: Add an address to the contract

To do this, we initially need to characterize another variable as a sort of address:

```solidity
contract Employee {
    string fName;
    uint age;
    address owner;  // Add this

    event Employee(
        string name,
        uint age,
    );

    function setEmployee(string _fName, uint _age) public {
        fName = _fName;
        age = _age;
        Employee(_fName, _age);
    }

    function getEmployee() view public returns (string, uint) {
        return (fName, age);
    }
}
```

## Step 3:  Add a constructor function

We need to add a constructor function to the new contract.

```solidity
    function Employee() public { // Add this Constructor
        owner = msg.sender;
    }
```

## Step 4: Add a modifier to the contract

Put this under the new constructor:

```solidity
    modifier onlyOwner {
        require(msg.sender == owner);
        _;
    }

```

This way, to make a modifier, you begin by expressing the modifier and the name of the modifier. For our situation, it will be onlyOwner which can utilize various circumstances as a modifier relying upon your details.

Note: Modifiers can likewise have contentions, ie: modifier name(arg1)

Within our modifier, we're stating require() which is a method for saying, "if the condition isn't valid, toss an exemption".

If the condition is valid, _; hanging underneath in the place the function body is set, the function will be executed.

## Step 5:  Use the new Modifier

We've made a modifier, now what? We can utilize it in any function where we just need the smart contract maker to approach.

How about we add it to the setEmployee () function:

```solidity
    function setEmployee(string _fName, uint _age) onlyOwner public {
        fName = _fName;
        age = _age;
        Employee(_fName, _age);
    }


```

Notice the **onlyOwner** modifier in the funciton declaration

##  Step 6: Test the result in Remix IDE


Go in the Remix IDE, click the Deploy button to create the contract. Then, specify "Chad", 44 in the setEmployee function textfield on the right of the IDE and click on the function name to set it.

It should work, and to verify, click getEmployee.

Now, try changing the Account dropdown at the top to a different account than the one used to create the smart contract and repeat the process above.

You'll notice it **won't work** this time, the debugger will throw an error.

**Oops!**


## Step 7: Run in Web3 UI Project:

Before we continue, being that we've updated the smart contract and recreated it in Remix, we need to grab the ABI from Compile -> Details and paste it into the web3.eth.contract() method in our project, as well as copying the smart contract address and pasting it into the EmployeeContract.at('') method.

After updating the project, you can load up index.html in the browser and assuming web3.eth.accounts[0] is being used for the defaultAccount, the UI should let you update the employee name and age, being that you're using the owners account.

If you try changing the defaultAccount to web3.eth.accounts[2] for instance, you will see it won't let you update the account. In fact, the rotating spinner will spin forever. If you look at the inspector in Chrome, you will find a big red error.

We need to adjust our Employee.setEmployee function in the JavaScript to provide for a better experience:


Change this: 

```javascript

$("#button").click(function() {
    $("#loader").show()
    employee.setEmployee($("#name").val(), $("#age").val()); // Change this
});

```

To this:

```javascript
$("#button").click(function() {
            $("#loader").show()
            employee.setEmployee($("#name").val(), $("#age").val(), (err, res) => {  // To This
                    if (err) {
                        $("#loader").hide();
                        console.log('oh no!');
                    }
                }
            });
```

## Step 8: Try an invalid record

Next, try changing the Account dropdown to an unexpected record in comparison to the one used to make the smart contract and rehash the procedure above.

As you can see, we're passing in a callback function, which Web3 providers, and we're checking if an error err was returned, then to hide the loader graphic and console log 'oh no'. Typically, you would do something other than console log, but you get the point.

Refresh the page and give it a shot now with the incorrect account. It will show the oh no log, but it won't leave the spinner sitting.
