Lab 9.1: Factories
================= 
## OBJECTIVES
The Objectives of this section is to learn how multiple contracts can be managed with factories. We’ll composed a small contract for considering a Hello World. Imagine a scenario where we could make a contract that gives clients a chance to make their own counters.

## Step 1. Open Remix IDE

Open Remix IDE and create a new project and start following the code below.

## Step 2. Create CounterFactory

We should name our contract CounterFactory which will deal with the various Counters. It will contain mapping that will match a proprietor to the address of his counter contract.

```solidity
mapping(address => address) counters;
```
When a client requires the creation of their own counter, use the following framework.

```solidity
    function createCounter() public { 
        if (counters[msg.sender] == 0) {
             counters[msg.sender] = new Counter(msg.sender); 
        }
    }
```
Note that the constructor has the same address as the proprietor, so we'll use a guest address. In the constructor of the new contract, the msg.sender will specify the address of our contract factory. This is an important point to understand since utilizing a contract to connect with different contracts is a typical practice. You should always know who the sender is in complex cases.

## Step 3 Verify Contract

Presently the addition work, we'll first check if the client effectively enlisted a contract and call the augmentation work from the contract. Since the mapping stores the address of the contract, we have send the Counter contracts address. Putting away the address of the contract without an immediate reference to a contract allows us to check if the contract was installed or not by checking it with an invalid address: 0 or 0x0.

```solidity
     function increment() public {
          require (counters[msg.sender] != 0);
          Counter(counters[msg.sender]).increment(msg.sender); 
     }
```

## Step 4: Estimate Counter

Then, in order to estimate the counter we'll take the address of the client as parameter to get the estimation of the counter.

```solidity
function getCount(address account) public constant returns (uint) { if (counters[account] != 0) {
return (Counter(counters[account]).getCount()); }
}
```
To keep it simple consider a few situations, for instance a requirement to send Ether to the createCounter() so the underlying maker of the contract could make them acquire Ether for his work. We could likewise add the capability to the first maker to erase a counter, or to relate a contract to a string or a number.

The Counter contract was marginally altered to fit the new address as a parameter. 

## Step 5: Review Code

Here is the complete code:

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.4.11;
contract Counter {
    address owner;
    address factory;
    uint count = 0;
    function Counter(address _owner) {
        owner = _owner;
        factory = msg.sender 
    }
    modifier isOwner(address _caller) {
       require(msg.sender == factory); 
       require(_caller == owner);
       _;
    }
    function increment(address caller) public isOwner(caller) {
        count = count + 1; 
    }
    function getCount() constant returns (uint) { 
        return count;
    } 
}

contract CounterFactory { 
    mapping(address => address) counters; 
    function createCounter() public {
        if (counters[msg.sender] == 0) { 
            counters[msg.sender] = new Counter(msg.sender);
        } 
    }
    function increment() public {
        require (counters[msg.sender] != 0); Counter(counters[msg.sender]).increment(msg.sender);
    }
    function getCount(address account) public constant returns (uint) {
        if (counters[account] != 0) {
            return (Counter(counters[account]).getCount()); 
        }
    } 
}
```
Note that if called to often, our counter can overrun. You should utilize the SafeMath library a reasonable amount to prevent an overrun from occurring.

To execute our contract, you should give both the code of the CounterFactory and the Counter. When executing you'll have to choose CounterFactory.

When executing the createCounter() from one of your records and calling the addition() work from the contract interface, you must display your record to be able to make an estimation of your counter. You would now be able to have one counter for every record.

## Lab Challenge
Modify the previous working example of Smart Contract using Factory.
   
## Summary
Contract management can help you deploy efficient smart contracts with a proven sustainability and maintainability framework. Because Solidity is so efficient, you can perform complex tasks in only a few numbers of lines of code. Therefore, it can be problematic to manage complex smart contracts using Solidity.

Fortunately, you can manage your smart contracts using Dynamic contract factories, Counterfactual contract deployment or arbitrary code execution on deployed contracts.
